README.md, before:

# Nothofagus Renderer

![example workflow](https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus/actions/workflows/cmake-multi-platform.yml/badge.svg)

Sandbox C++ pixel art real time renderer using OpenGL 3.3 under the hood.
You define some textures in your code, some dynamic locations and you are ready to quick start your game.
Nothofagus also gives you access to ImGui and other third party libs to speed up your development journey.

Your code will look like this.

```
Nothofagus::ColorPallete pallete{
    {0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0},
    {0.0, 0.4, 0.0, 1.0},
    {0.2, 0.8, 0.2, 1.0},
    {0.5, 1.0, 0.5, 1.0},
};

Nothofagus::Texture texture({8, 8}, {0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 1.0});
texture.setPallete(pallete)
    .setPixels(
    {
        2,1,3,0,0,3,2,1,
        2,1,1,0,0,0,2,1,
        2,1,1,1,0,0,2,1,
        2,1,2,1,1,0,2,1,
        2,1,0,2,1,1,2,1,
        2,1,0,0,2,1,2,1,
        2,1,0,0,0,2,2,1,
        2,1,3,0,0,3,2,1,
    }
);
Nothofagus::TextureId textureId = canvas.addTexture(texture);
Nothofagus::BellotaId bellotaId = canvas.addBellota({{{75.0f, 75.0f}}, textureId});

canvas.run(update);
```

A `Bellota` is a drawable element. Each number in the texture corresponds to the index of the color specified in the `TexturePallete`. Yes, it is an indirect color scheme.

You can make animations by providing an `update` function.

```
float time = 0.0f;
bool rotate = true;

auto update = [&](float dt)
{
    time += dt;

    ImGui::Begin("Hello there!");
    ImGui::Text("May ImGui be with you...");
    ImGui::Checkbox("Rotate?", &rotate);
    if (rotate)
    {
        Nothofagus::Bellota& bellota = canvas.bellota(bellotaId);
        bellota.transform().angle() = 0.1f * time;
    }
    ImGui::End();
};

canvas.run(update);
```

And if you want to make it interactive, just add a `Controller`

```
Nothofagus::Controller controller;
controller.registerAction({Nothofagus::Key::W, Nothofagus::DiscreteTrigger::Press}, [&]()
{
    canvas.bellota(bellotaId).transform().location().y += 10.0f;
});

canvas.run(update, controller);
```

This is a screenshot of [examples/hello_nothofagus.cpp](examples/hello_nothofagus.cpp)
![screenshot](assets/screenshot.webp "screenshot")

## Setting up your project

You can use this repository as a git submodule

```
git submodule add https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus.git third_party/nothofagus
```

And then use `add_subdirectory` from your project's CMake file.

```
option(NOTHOFAGUS_INSTALL "Disabling installation of Nothofagus" OFF)
add_subdirectory("third_party/nothofagus")

add_executable(nothofagus_demo
    "source/nothofagus_demo.cpp"
)
set_property(TARGET nothofagus_demo PROPERTY CXX_STANDARD 20)
target_include_directories(nothofagus_demo PRIVATE ${NOTHOFAGUS_INCLUDE})
target_link_libraries(nothofagus_demo PRIVATE nothofagus)
```

You can check the friend repo [nothofagus_demo](https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus_demo) with a full example.

Of course there are other ways to work, choose whatever suits you best.

## Quick start

```
git clone https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus.git
cd nothofagus
git submodule update --init --recursive
cmake --preset ninja-release
cd ../build_cmake/ninja-release/
ninja
ninja install
cd ../install_cmake/ninja-release/
```

There you will fing the nothofagus static library and some demos.

## Dependencies

You should have [cmake](https://cmake.org/), [ninja](https://ninja-build.org/) and [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/) (or another proper compiler) in your development environment.

## Advance features

- [Sprite Animations](docs/sprite_animations.md)

## Doxygen Documentation

*Disclaimer: Doxygen documentation is work in progress...*

This project uses Doxygen to create documentation, so you need to have Doxygen installed (https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/install.html) and once in this directory you should run the next command:

```bash
    doxygen Doxyfile
```

You can also use ninja to generate documentation at installation. In this directory you should run the following commands:

```bash
    cmake --preset ninja-release-examples
    cd ../build/ninja-release-examples
    ninja install
    ninja doc_doxygen
```

Commit message:

AnimatedBellota incorporated into Bellota using the same IndirectTexture class. Texture is now a variant representing IndirectTexture or DirectTexture. (#9)
Now we can use both color schemes to specify colors in bellota's textures, direct and indirect.

- Previous Texture definition is now IndirectTexture, which as keeps a color pallete and a matrix of indices to those colors.
- New definition for DirectTexture, where each element of the matrix is a specific collor.
- Texture is now defined as std::variant<IndirectTexture, DirectTexture> so it can be used a both types.
- Some Visitors are implemented to handle basic and common Texture functionality.
- AnimatedBellota was eliminated and its functionality is now part of standard Bellota.
- Animations are only supported with Indirect Textures via its layers.
- Text rendering is only supported with Indirect Textures.
- Examples have been renamed to better illustrate their intent.

Bellota's texture is now implemented via an OpenGL Texture Array 2D instead of a simple Texture 2D. This is mostly to decrease engine complexity and support a single flow. Much of the AnimatedBellota was duplicated. Bellota has a reference to a Texture, so it can use Direct or Indirect color schemes.

https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus/issues/6

README.md, after:

# Nothofagus Renderer

![example workflow](https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus/actions/workflows/cmake-multi-platform.yml/badge.svg)

Sandbox C++ pixel art real time renderer using OpenGL 3.3 under the hood.
You define some textures in your code, some dynamic locations and you are ready to quick start your game/application.
Nothofagus also gives you access to ImGui and other third party libs to speed up your development journey.

Your code will look like this.

```
Nothofagus::ColorPallete pallete{
    {0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0},
    {0.0, 0.4, 0.0, 1.0},
    {0.2, 0.8, 0.2, 1.0},
    {0.5, 1.0, 0.5, 1.0},
};

Nothofagus::IndirectTexture texture({8, 8}, {0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 1.0});
texture.setPallete(pallete)
    .setPixels(
    {
        2,1,3,0,0,3,2,1,
        2,1,1,0,0,0,2,1,
        2,1,1,1,0,0,2,1,
        2,1,2,1,1,0,2,1,
        2,1,0,2,1,1,2,1,
        2,1,0,0,2,1,2,1,
        2,1,0,0,0,2,2,1,
        2,1,3,0,0,3,2,1,
    }
);
Nothofagus::TextureId textureId = canvas.addTexture(texture);
Nothofagus::BellotaId bellotaId = canvas.addBellota({{{75.0f, 75.0f}}, textureId});

canvas.run(update);
```

A `Bellota` is a drawable element. Each number in the texture corresponds to the index of the color specified in the `TexturePallete`. Yes, it is an indirect color scheme.

You can make animations by providing an `update` function.

```
float time = 0.0f;
bool rotate = true;

auto update = [&](float dt)
{
    time += dt;

    ImGui::Begin("Hello there!");
    ImGui::Text("May ImGui be with you...");
    ImGui::Checkbox("Rotate?", &rotate);
    if (rotate)
    {
        Nothofagus::Bellota& bellota = canvas.bellota(bellotaId);
        bellota.transform().angle() = 0.1f * time;
    }
    ImGui::End();
};

canvas.run(update);
```

And if you want to make it interactive, just add a `Controller`

```
Nothofagus::Controller controller;
controller.registerAction({Nothofagus::Key::W, Nothofagus::DiscreteTrigger::Press}, [&]()
{
    canvas.bellota(bellotaId).transform().location().y += 10.0f;
});

canvas.run(update, controller);
```

This is a screenshot of [examples/hello_nothofagus.cpp](examples/hello_nothofagus.cpp)
![screenshot](assets/screenshot.webp "screenshot")

## Setting up your project

You can use this repository as a git submodule

```
git submodule add https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus.git third_party/nothofagus
```

And then use `add_subdirectory` from your project's CMake file.

```
option(NOTHOFAGUS_INSTALL "Disabling installation of Nothofagus" OFF)
add_subdirectory("third_party/nothofagus")

add_executable(nothofagus_demo
    "source/nothofagus_demo.cpp"
)
set_property(TARGET nothofagus_demo PROPERTY CXX_STANDARD 20)
target_include_directories(nothofagus_demo PRIVATE ${NOTHOFAGUS_INCLUDE})
target_link_libraries(nothofagus_demo PRIVATE nothofagus)
```

You can check the friend repo [nothofagus_demo](https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus_demo) with a full example.

Of course there are other ways to work, choose whatever suits you best.

## Quick start

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/dantros/nothofagus.git
cd nothofagus
cmake --preset ninja-release
cd ../build_cmake/ninja-release/
ninja
ninja install
cd ../install_cmake/ninja-release/
```

If you forgot the `--recursive` argument, you can always download the dependencies later with

```
git submodule --init --recursive
```

There you will find the nothofagus static library and some demos.

## Dependencies

You should have [cmake](https://cmake.org/), [ninja](https://ninja-build.org/) and [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/) (or another proper compiler) in your development environment.

## Special Features

- [Sprite Animations](docs/sprite_animations.md)

## Doxygen Documentation [WIP]

This project uses Doxygen to create documentation, so you need to have Doxygen installed (https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/install.html). This documentation is not build by default. You need to enable it via CMake by setting the variable `NOTHOFAGUS_BUILD_DOCS` to `ON` either via cli cmake, cmake-gui or via your user cmake presets.

Then, from the repository directory you should run the next command:

```bash
    doxygen Doxyfile
```

You can also use ninja to generate documentation at installation.

```bash
    cmake --preset ninja-release-examples
    cd ../build/ninja-release-examples
    ninja install
    ninja doc_doxygen
```
